Clinton: Thank you, Lester, and thanks to Hofstra for hosting us. The central question in this election is really what kind of country we want to be in, what kind of future we'll build together.

Clinton: Well, I think that trade is an important issue. Of course, we are 5 percent of the world's population. We have to trade with the other 95 percent. And we need to have smart, fair trade deals. We also, though, need to have a tax system that rewards work and not just financial transactions. And the kind of plan that Donald has put forth would be trickle-down economics. It would be the most extreme version — the biggest tax cuts for the top percents of the people in this country that we've ever had. I call it "trumped up trickle-down," because that's exactly what it would be.

Clinton: Let's stop for a second here and remember where we were eight years ago. We had the worst financial crisis, the worst since the 1930s in large part because of the policies that slashed taxes on the wealthy, failed to invest in the middle class, took their eyes off of Wall Street and created a perfect storm. In fact, Donald was one of the people who rooted for the housing crisis. He said back in 2006, "gee, I hope it does collapse because then I can go in and buy some and make some money." Well, it did collapse.

Clinton: 9 million people — 9 million people lost their jobs, 5 million people lost their homes and $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out. Now, we have come back from that abyss and it has not been easy, so we're now on the precipice from having a lasting economy but we need to go back to the policies that failed us in the first place. Independent experts have looked at what I have proposed and looked at what Donald has proposed and basically they said this.

Clinton: Scientists say it's real and I think it's important that we grip this and deal with it both at home and abroad. And here's what we can do. We can deploy half a billion more solar panels. We can have enough clean energy to power every home. We can build a new modern electric grid. That's a lot of jobs. That's a lot of new economic activity. So I've tried to be very specific about what we can and should do and I am determined that that we're going to get the economy really moving again, building on the progress we've made over the last eight years but never going back to what got us in trouble in the first place.

Clinton: Actually, that's —

Clinton: Well, actually, I have thought about this quite a bit.

Clinton: And I have — well, not quite that long. I think my husband did a pretty good job in the 1990s. I think a lot about what worked and how we can make it work again.

Clinton: Incomes went up for everybody. Manufacturing went up in the 1990s if we're actually going to look at the facts. When I was in the Senate, I had a number of trade deals that came before me and I held them all to the same test: Will they create jobs in America and are they good for our national security. Some of them I voted for.

Clinton: I've been a senator and I have —

Clinton: Well, that's your opinion.

Clinton: That is not accurate. Once the terms were laid out and —

Clinton: You know what —

Clinton: No.

Clinton: Donald, I know you live in your own reality, but that is not the facts. The facts are I did say I hoped it would be a good deal, but when it was negotiated —

Clinton: — which I was not responsible for, I concluded it wasn't. I wrote about that.

Clinton: Look, there are —

Clinton: There are different views about what is good for our country, our economy, and our leadership in the world, and I think it's important to look at what we need to do to get the economy going again. That's why I said, new jobs with rising incomes, investments, not in more tax cuts that would add $5 trillion to the debt.

Clinton: Oh, I do.

Clinton: I have written a book about it. It's called Stronger Together. You can pick it up tomorrow at the bookstore or at an airport near you.

Clinton: We need to have strong growth, fair growth, sustained growth. We also have to look at how we help families balance their responsibilities at home and the responsibilities of business. We have a very robust set of plans, and people have looked at both of our plans, have concluded that mine would create 10 million jobs and yours would lose us 3 and a half million jobs and —

Clinton: Lester, that can't be left to stand.

Clinton: I kind of assumed there would be a lot of these charges and claims and so —

Clinton: We have taken the homepage of my website, HillaryClinton.com and we've turned it into a fact checker. So if you want to see it in realtime, what the facts are, please go and take a look, because —

Clinton: I will not add a penny to the debt and your plans would add $5 trillion to the debt. What I have proposed would cut regulations and streamline them for small businesses. What I have proposed would be paid for by raising taxes on the wealthy because they have made all the gains in the economy and I think it's time that the wealthy and corporations pay their fair share.

Clinton: At least I have a plan to fight ISIS.

Clinton: Go to — please, the fact checkers, get to work.

Clinton: I have a feeling by the end of this evening I'm going to be blamed for everything that's ever happened.

Clinton: Yeah. Why not? Just join the debate by saying more crazy things. Now, let me say this.

Clinton: Let's start the clock again, Lester. We've looked at your tax proposals. I don't see changes in the corporate tax rates or the kinds of proposals you're referring to that would cause the repatriation, bringing back of the money stranded overseas.

Clinton: I happen to support that in a way that will actually work to our benefit. But when I look at what you have proposed, you have what is called now the Trump loophole because it would so advantage you and the business you do. You've proposed —

Clinton: A tax benefit for your family.

Clinton: Trumped up, trickle down. Trickle down did not work. It got us into the mess we were in in 2008 and 2009. Slashing taxes on the wealthy hasn't worked and a lot of really smart, wealthy people know that. And they are saying, hey, we need to do more to make the contributions we should be making to rebuild the middle class. I don't think top-down works in America.

Clinton: The IRS says an audit of your taxes — you're perfectly free to release your taxes during an audit. The question, does the public's right to know outweigh your —

Clinton: I think you've just seen another example of bait and switch here. For 40 years, everyone running for president has released their tax returns. You can go and see nearly I think 39, 40 years of our tax returns but everyone has done it. We know the IRS has made clear there is no prohibition on releasing it when you're under audit.

Clinton: He paid zero. That means zero for troops, zero for vets, zero for schools or health. And I think probably he's not all that enthusiastic about having the rest of our country see what the real reasons are because it must be something really important, even terrible that he's trying to hide.

Clinton: I do. You know, I made a mistake using a private email.

Clinton: And if I had to do it over again, I would obviously do it differently. But I'm not going to make any excuses. It was a mistake and I take responsibility for that.

Clinton: And maybe it's because you haven't paid any federal income tax for a lot of years. And the other thing I think is important —

Clinton: And if your main claim to be President of the United States is your business, then I think we should talk about that.

Clinton: For the thousands of people that you have stiffed over the course of your business, not deserve some kind of apology from someone who has taken their labor, taken the goods that they've produced and then refused to pay them.

Clinton: Of the United States. Well, sometimes there's not a direct transfer of skills from business to government but sometimes what happened in business would be really bad for government. So be very clear about that.

Clinton: Well, you're right. Race remains a significant challenge in our country. Unfortunately, race still determines too much. Often it determines where people live, determines what kind of education in their public schools they can get and, yes, it determines how they are treated in the criminal justice system.

Clinton: Well, I've heard Donald say this at his rallies, and it's really unfortunate that he paints such a dire, negative picture of black communities in our country.

Clinton: [He misses the] vibrancy of the black church. The black businesses that employ so many people. The opportunities that so many families are working to provide for their kids. We do always have to make sure we keep people safe. There are the right ways of doing it, then there are ways that are infective. Stop-and-frisk was found to be unconstitutional. And in part because it was infective. It did not do what it needed to do.

Clinton: I think implicit bias is a problem for everyone, not just police. I think too many of us in our great country jump to conclusions about each other. And therefore I think we need all of us to be asking hard questions about, why am I feeling this way?

Clinton: It's also fair to say, if we're going to talk about mayors, that under the current mayor, crime has continued to drop, including murders.

Clinton: No, I'm not.

Clinton: I give credit, across the board, going back two mayors, two police chiefs, because it has worked. And other communities need to come together to do what will work as well. Look, one murder is too many. But it is important that we learn from things that were effective but not from things that sound good but don't have the impact that we would want. Who disagrees with keeping neighborhoods safe, but let's also add, no one should disagree about respecting the rights of young men who live in those neighborhoods. So we need to do a better job of working, again, with the communities, faith communities, business communities, as well as the police, to try to deal with this problem.

Clinton: I think Donald just criticized me for preparing for this debate. And yes, I did. And you know what else I prepared for? I prepared to be president. And I think that's a good thing.

Clinton: Well, just listen to what you heard. [ Laughter ] And clearly, as Donald just admitted, he knew he was going to stand on this debate stage and Lester holt was going to be asking us questions, so he tried to put the whole racist/birther lie to bed, but it can't be dismissed that easily. He has really started his political activity based on this racist lie that our first black president was not an American citizen. There was absolutely no evidence for it, but he persisted.

Clinton: I think cyber security, cyber warfare will be one of the greatest challenges facing the next president, because clearly we're facing at this point, two different kinds adversaries. There are the independent hacking groups that do it mostly for commercial reasons to try to steal information that they then can use to make money. But increasingly, we are seeing cyberattacks coming from states.

Clinton: Well, I think there are a number of issues that we should be addressing. I have put forth a plan to defeat ISIS. It does involve going after them online.

Clinton: Secretary Clinton?

Clinton: Well, I hope the fact checkers are turning up the volume and really working hard. Donald supported the invasion of Iraq.

Clinton: That is absolutely --

Clinton: Proved over and over again.

Clinton: He actually advocated for the actions we took in Libya and urged that Gaddafi be taken out after actually doing some business with him one time. But the larger point, he says this constantly, is George W. Bush made the agreement about when American troops would leave Iraq.

Clinton: We've covered this ground.

Clinton: The record shows otherwise, but.

Clinton: Woo, okay. [ Laughter ] Let's talk about two important issues that were briefly mentioned by Donald. First, NATO. NATO, as a military alliance, has something called Article V. And basically it says this. An attack on one is an attack on all. And do you know the only time it's ever been invoked after 9/11.

Clinton: That's bad judgment. That is not the right temperament to be commander in chief, to be taunted and the worst part —

Clinton: I heard Donald say has been about nuclear weapons. He has said repeatedly he didn't care if other countries got nuclear weapon, Japan, Saudi Arabia. It has been the policy of the United States, Republicans and Democrats to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons. He even said if there were nuclear war in east Asia, that's fine, you know.

Clinton: Have a good time, folks.

Clinton: And in fact, his cavalier attitude about nuclear weapons is so deeply troubling. That is the number one threat we face in the world, and it particularly threatening if terrorists get their hands on a nuclear weapon. So a man who can be as easily tweaked should not have his hands anywhere near the nuclear codes.

Clinton: It's a good one, though, well describes the problem.

Clinton: Let me start by saying words matter. Words matter when you run for president, and they really matter when you are president.

Clinton: Well, as soon as he travels to 112 countries and negotiates a peace deal, a cease-fire, a release of dissidents, an opening of new opportunities in nations around the world or even spends 11 hours testifying in front of a congressional committee, he can talk to me about stamina.

Clinton: One thing, Lester. He tried to switch from looks to stamina. But this is a man who has called women pigs, slobs, and dogs. And someone who has said pregnancy is an inconvenience to employers, who has said —

Clinton: Women don't deserve equal pay unless they do as good a job as men. And one of the worst things he said was about a woman in a beauty contest. He loves beauty contests, supporting them and hanging around them. And he called they woman Ms. Piggy. Then he called her Ms. Housekeeping, because she was Latina. Donald, she has a name.

Clinton: She has become a US Citizen, and you can bet, she's going to vote this November.

Clinton: I support our democracy. And sometimes you win. Sometimes you lose. But I certainly will support the outcome of this election. And I know Donald's trying very hard to plant doubts about it. It's not about us so much as it is about you and your families and the kind of country and future you want. So I sure hope you will get out and vote as though your future depended on it because it does.
