Holt: Good evening from Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York, I'm Lester Holt, anchor of NBC Nightly News. I want to welcome you to the first presidential debate. The participants are Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. This debate is sponsored by a nonpartisan commission.

Holt: Secretary Clinton, thank you. Mr. Trump, the same question to you. It's about putting money — more money into the pockets of American workers. You have up to two minutes.

Holt: Secretary Clinton, would you like to respond?

Holt: Let me follow up with Mr. Trump, if I can. You've talked about creating 25 million jobs and you've promised to bring back millions of jobs for Americans. How are we going to bring back the industries that have left this country for cheaper labor overseas? How specifically are you going to tell American manufacturers that you have to come back?

Holt: Let me interrupt a moment.

Holt: Back to the question, specifically, how do you bring back the jobs? American manufacturers, how do you bring the jobs back?

Holt: Let me let the secretary answer here.

Holt: Mr. Trump?

Holt: We're going to move to —

Holt: Let me get you to pause right there.

Holt: You just opened the next segment.

Holt: Folks, let me —

Holt: You are unpacking a lot here and we're still on the issue here of achieving prosperity and I want to talk about taxes, the fundamental difference between the two of you concerns the wealthy. Secretary Clinton, you're calling for an increase of taxes on the wealthiest and Mr. Trump, you're calling on tax cuts for the wealthy. I'd like for you to defend that, and this next two-minute answer goes to you, Mr. Trump.

Holt: You have two minutes on the same question to defend tax increases of the wealthiest Americans, Secretary Clinton.

Holt: This is Secretary Clinton's two minutes, please.

Holt: I'm sorry. This is Secretary Clinton's two minutes.

Holt: Mr. Trump, we're talking about the burden that Americans have to pay, yet you have not released your tax returns and the reason nominees have released their returns for decades is so that voters will know if their potential president owes money, who he owes it to and any business conflicts. Don't Americans have a right to know if there are any conflicts of interest?

Holt: So it's negotiable?

Holt: I'll let her answer that. Let me admonish the audience one more time. There was an agreement. We asked you to be silent. It would be helpful for us. Secretary Clinton?

Holt: He also raised the issue of your emails. Do you want to respond to that?

Holt: Mr. Trump?

Holt: We're well behind schedule so I'm going to move to our next segment. We move into our next segment talking about America's direction and let's talk about race. The share of Americans who say race relations are bad in this country is the highest it's been in decades. Much of it amplified by shootings in Arkansas and Tulsa. How do you heal the divide? Secretary Clinton, you get two minutes on this.

Holt: Mr. Trump, you have two minutes. How do you heal the divide?

Holt: Your two minutes expired but I want to follow up. Stop-and-frisk was ruled unconstitutional in New York because it largely singled out black and hispanic —

Holt: The argument is that it's a form of racial profiling.

Holt: Secretary Clinton?

Holt: You said we need do everything possible to improve policing to go right at implicit bias. Do you think police are implicitly biased against black people?

Holt: This conversation is about race.

Holt: Please respond, then I have a follow up question.

Holt: Mr. Trump, for five years you've perpetuated a false claim of the nation's first black president was not a natural-born citizen. You questioned his legitimacy.

Holt: I'll let you respond, it's important, but I just want to get answer — the birth certificate was produced in 2011. You continued to tell the story and question the president's legitimacy in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, as recently as January. So the question is, what changed your mind?

Holt: I'm sorry, I will let you respond to that. There's a lot there. But we're talking about racial healing in this statement.

Holt: Secretary Clinton?

Holt: Mr. Trump, you can respond. And we're going to move on to the next segment.

Holt: Our next segment is called securing America. We want to start with a 21st century war happening every day in this country, our institutions are under cyber attack, and our secrets are being stolen. So my question is who's behind it and how do we fight it? Secretary Clinton, this goes to you.

Holt: Mr. Trump, you have two minutes in the same question.

Holt: Secretary Clinton?

Holt: You mentioned ISIS, and we think of ISIS certainly as "Over there", but there are American citizens who have been inspired to commit acts of terror on American soil. For instance the recent attacks in New Jersey and New York and deadly attacks in San Bernardino and Orlando. Tell us specifically how you would prevent home-grown attacks by American citizens. Mr. Trump?

Holt: Respond.

Holt: Mr. Trump, a lot of these judgment questions. You supported the War in Iraq.

Holt: Why --

Holt: My reference is to what you said in 2002.

Holt: Why is your judgment any different than Mrs. Clinton's?

Holt: Secretary —

Holt: Secretary Clinton?

Holt: We need to move on.

Holt: Which leads to the last subject. We're on the subject of securing America. On nuclear war, President Obama considered changing the policy on first use. Do you support that?

Holt: Two minutes is expired.

Holt: Very quickly.

Holt: We have just a —

Holt: We have just a few final questions.

Holt: This year, Secretary Clinton became the first woman nominated from a major party. Earlier you said she doesn't have a presidential look, she's standing here what did you mean by that?

Holt: The quote was I just don't think she has a presidential look.

Holt: Let's let her respond.

Holt: We are at the final question.

Holt: Ten seconds.

Holt: Please, very quickly.

Holt: One of you will not win this election, are you willing to accept the outcome as the will of the voters?

Holt: Will you accept the outcome as the will of the voters?

Holt: Will you accept the outcome of the election?
