Trump: Thank you, Lester. Our jobs are fleeing the country. They are going to Mexico, they are going to many other countries. You look at what China is doing to our country in terms of making our product. They are devaluing their currency and there's nobody in our government to fight them and we have a very good fight and we have a winning fight because they are using our country as a piggy bank to rebuild China and many other countries are doing the same thing. So we're losing our good jobs, so many of them.

Trump: Well, for one thing, and before we start on that, my father gave me a very small loan in 1975 and I built it into a company that's worth many, many billions of dollars with some of the greatest assets in the world, and I say that because that's the kind of thinking our country needs. Our country is in deep trouble. We don't know what we're doing when it comes to devaluations, and all of these countries all over the world, especially China, they are the best, the best ever at it. What they are doing to us is a very, very sad thing.

Trump: Secretary Clinton and others, politicians, should have been doing this for years, not right now because of the fact that we've created a movement. They should have been doing this for years. What's happened to our jobs and our country and our economy generally is —look, we owe $20 trillion. We can't do it any longer.

Trump: First of all, you don't let the companies leave. The companies are leaving. There are thousands of them. They are leaving and they are leaving in bigger numbers than ever.

Trump: That's called business, by the way.

Trump: I did not. I do not say that.

Trump: She talks about solar panels. We invested in a solar company. They lost plenty of money on that one. Look, I'm a great believer in all forms of energy but we're putting a lot of people out of work. Our energy policies are a disaster. Our country is losing so much in terms of energy and paying off our debt. You can't look at what you're planning to do with $20 trillion in debt. The Obama administration, from the time they have come in, is over 230 years worth of debt and he's topped it. He's doubled it in a course of almost eight years, seven and a half years, to be semi-exact.

Trump: Excuse me. I will bring back jobs. You can't bring back jobs.

Trump: Yeah, for 30 years.

Trump: He approved NAFTA, which is the single worst trade deal in this country.

Trump: You haven't done it in 30 years or 26 years or —

Trump: Excuse me. Your husband signed NAFTA, which was one of the worst things that ever happened.

Trump: To the manufacturing industry. You go to new England, Ohio, Pennsylvania, you go anywhere you want, Secretary Clinton, and you will see devastation where manufacturing is down 30, 40, sometimes 50 percent.

Trump: You called it the gold standard. You called it the gold standard of trade deals.

Trump: You said it's the finest deal you've ever seen.

Trump: And all of a sudden you were against it.

Trump: Not.

Trump: So is it President Obama's fault? Is it President Obama's fault?

Trump: So is it President Obama's fault?

Trump: But you have no plan.

Trump: Secretary, you have no plan.

Trump: You are going to approve one of the biggest tax increases in history. You are going to drive business out. Your regulations are a disaster and you're going to increase regulations all over the place. And by the way, my tax cut is the biggest since Ronald Reagan. I'm very proud of it. It will create tremendous numbers of new jobs. But regulations, you are going to regulate these businesses out of existence. When I go around — Lester, I tell you this, I've been all over.

Trump: Thirty seconds and then we'll go on.

Trump: Facts.

Trump: And take a look at mine, also.

Trump: … She's going to raise taxes $1.3 trillion. Look at her website. It's no different than this. She's telling us how to fight ISIS. She tells you how to fight ISIS on her website. I don't think General MacArthur would like that too much.

Trump: No, you're telling the enemy everything you want to do. No wonder you've been fighting ISIS your entire adult life.

Trump: They are going to expand their companies and do a tremendous job. I'm getting rid of the great thing for the wealthy, it's a great thing for the middle class and for companies to expand and when these people are going to put billions and billions of dollars into companies and when they are going to bring $2.5 trillion back from overseas where they can't bring the money back because politicians like Secretary Clinton won't allow them to bring the money back because the taxes are so onerous and the bureaucratic red tape, it's so bad.

Trump: Why not?

Trump: There's nothing crazy about not letting our companies bring their money back into the country.

Trump: Then you didn't read it.

Trump: Who gave it that name? Who gave it that name.

Trump: How much for my family? Lester? How much?

Trump: Typical politician, all talk, no action, sounds good, doesn't work, never going to happen. Our country is suffering because people like Secretary Clinton have made such bad decisions in terms of our jobs and in terms of what's going on. Now, look, we have the worst revival of the economy since the great depression and, believe me, we're in a bubble right now. The only thing that looks good is the stock market but if you raise interest rates even a little bit, it's going to come crashing down.

Trump: I don't mind releasing. I'm under a routine audit. It will be released as soon as the audit is complete but you will learn more about Donald Trump by going down to the federal elections where I filed a 104-page, essentially, financial statement of sorts, the forms that they have. It shows income, in fact, the income, I just looked today, the income is filed at $694 million for this past year.

Trump: I told you, I'll release them after the audit. I've been under audit for almost 15 years. I know a lot of wealthy people that have never been audited. I get audited every year. In a way, I should be complaining.

Trump: It's not negotiable, no. Why did she delete 33,000 —

Trump: That makes me smart.

Trump: That's for sure.

Trump: That was more than a mistake. That was done purposely. Okay? That was not a mistake. That was done purposely. When you have your staff taking the fifth amendment, taking the fifth so they are not prosecuted, when you have the man that set up the illegal server taking the fifth, I think it's disgraceful. And believe me, this country thinks it's disgraceful — really thinks it's disgraceful, also.

Trump: It would be squandered, too, believe me.

Trump: Maybe he didn't do a good job and I was unsatisfied with his work, which our country should do, too.

Trump: Wrong.

Trump: Look, it's all words. It's all sound bites. I built an unbelievable company, some of the greatest assets anywhere in the world, real estate assets in the world beyond the United States and it's an unbelievable company. But on occasion, four times, we used certain laws that are there and when Secretary Clinton talks about people that didn't get paid, first of all, they did get paid a lot but taking advantage of the laws of the nation.

Trump: First of all, Secretary Clinton doesn't want to use a couple of words. And that's law and order. We need law and order. If we don't have it, we're not going to have a country. And when I look at what's going on in Charlotte, a city I love, a city where I have investments, when I look at what's going on in various parts of our country, I could keep naming them all day long, we need law and order in our country. And I just got today the — as you know, the endorsement of the fraternal order of police, it just came in.

Trump: No, you're wrong. It went before a judge who was a very against police judge. It was taken away from her and our mayor, our new mayor, refused to go forward with the case. They would have won on appeal. If you look at it throughout the country, there are —

Trump: No. The argument is that we have to take the gun ace way from these people that have them and are bad people and shouldn't have them. These are felons. These are people that are bad people that shouldn't be — when you have 3,000 shootings in Chicago from January 1st, when you have 4,000 people killed in Chicago by guns from the beginning of the presidency of Barack Obama, his hometown, you have to have stop and frisk.

Trump: Oh.

Trump: I'd like to respond to that. Police. First of all, I agree, and a lot of people even within my own party want to give certain rights to people on watch lists and no fly lists. A person is on a watch list or no-fly list, and I have the endorsement of the NRA. But we have to look very strongly at no-fly lists and watch lists, and when people are on there, even if they shouldn't be on there, we'll help them legally, we'll help them get off , but I tend to agree with that.

Trump: You're wrong.

Trump: Murders are up. You check it.

Trump: I'd like to respond if I might.

Trump: Look, the African-American community has been let down by our politicians. They talk good around election time, like right now. And after the election they say see you later, I'll see you in four year of the African American community, they've been abused and used in order to get votes by Democrats and politicians.

Trump: I'll tell you, very simple to say. Sidney Blumenthal works for the campaign and close are, very close friend of secretary Clinton. And her campaign manager, Patty Doyle, went to, during the campaign, her campaign against Obama — Patty Doyle was on Wolf Blitzer, saying that this happened. Blumenthal sent McClatchy, highly respected reporter to Kenya to find out about it.

Trump: Well, nobody was pressing it. Nobody was caring much about it figured you'd asked question tonight, but I was one that got them to produce the birth certificate, and I think I did a good job. Secretary Clinton also fought it, you know everyone in mainstream's going to say that's not true. It's true. Sidney Blumenthal sent the reporter. You just have to take a look at CNN, the interview with your former campaign manager, and she was involved. But just like she can't bring back jobs, she can't produce.

Trump: I say nothing, because I was able to get him to produce it. He should have produced it a long time before. I say nothing, but when you talk about healing, I think that I've developed very, very good relationships, over the last little while with the African-American community, I think you can see that. And I feel that they really wanted me to come to that conclusion, and I think I did a great job and a great service, not only for the country, but even for the president in getting him to produce his birth certificate.

Trump: I'd like that respond. I got to watch in preparing for your debates for Barack Obama you treated him with terrible disrespect. And I watch the way you talk now about how lovely everything is. It doesn't work that way. Were you after him, you were trying to, you even sent out pictures of him in a certain garb, very famous pictures, I don't think you can deny that. But just last week your campaign manager said it was true. So when you try to act holier than thou, it really doesn't work. As far as the lawsuit, yes, when I was very young, I went into my father's company.

Trump: I do want to say that I was just endorsed and more are coming next week, it will be over 200 admirals. Many of them are here, admirals and generals endorsed me to lead this country. That just happened. And many more are coming. And I'm very proud of it. In addition, I was just endorse the by ice. So when Secretary Clinton talks about I'll take the admirals and generals any day over the political hacks.

Trump: First I have to say one thing very important. Secretary Clinton is talking about taking out ISIS. We will take out ISIS. Well, president Obama and secretary Clinton created a vacuum the way they got out of Iraq, because they got out, they shouldn't have been in, but once they got in, the way think got — they got out was a disaster. She's been trying to take them out for a long time. But they wouldn't even have been formed if they left some troops behind. Like 10,000 or maybe something more than that.

Trump: Wrong.

Trump: Wrong.

Trump: Wrong.

Trump: Well, I'd have to respond.

Trump: The secretary said I have strongly about working with, we've been working with them for many years, and we have the greatest mess anyone's ever seen. Under your direction, to a large extent. But you look at the Middle East.

Trump: When they formed, this is something that never should have happened. It should never happened. Now you're talking about taking out ISIS. But you were there, and you were secretary of state when it was a little infant. Now it's in over 30 countries, and you're going to stop them? I don't think so.

Trump: That is a mainstream media nonsense put out by her, because she frankly, I think the best person in her campaign is mainstream media. Would you like to hear? I was against the war, wait a minute. I was against the war in Iraq. Just so you put it out.

Trump: It does not show that. The record shows that I'm right. When I did an interview with Howard Stern, very lightly, first time anybody's asked me, I said who knows. Essentially, I then did an interview Neil Cavuto. I had numerous conversations with Sean Hannity at Fox, and he called me the other day and I spoke to him about it. He said you were totally, because he was for the war.

Trump: And that is before the war started. Sean Hannity said very strongly, to me and other people, he's willing to say, but nobody wants to call him, I was against the war. He said you used to have fights with me, because Sean was in favor of the war. And I understand that side also. Not very much, because we should have never been there, but nobody called Sean Hannity. And then they did an article in a major magazine, shortly after the war started. I think in '04. But they did an article, which had me totally against the War in Iraq.

Trump: You didn't hear what I said.

Trump: I have better judgment, I also have a much better temperament than she does, you know? I have a much better. She spent, let me tell you. She spent hundreds of millions of dollars on an advertising, you know, they get Madison Avenue into a room. Temperament, let's go after. I think my strongest asset, maybe by far is my temperament. I have a winning temperament. I know how to win. She does not.

Trump: The AFL-CIO, the other day, behind the blue screen, I don't know who you were talking to, Secretary, Clinton, but you were totally out of control. I said there's a person with a temperament that's got a problem.

Trump: That would not start a war.

Trump: They were taunting us —

Trump: Wrong.

Trump: That's lies.

Trump: This argument is getting a little old.

Trump: It's not an accurate one at all. Not an accurate one. I want to give a lot of things. I agree with her on one thing. The single greatest problem the world has is nuclear armament, nuclear weapons. Not global warming, like you think and your president thinks. Nuclear is the greatest threat. Just to go down the list, we defend Japan. We defend Germany. We defend South Korea, we defend Saudi Arabia. We defend countries. They do not pay us what they should be paying us, because we are providing tremendous service and losing a fortune. We lose on everything. I say who makes these? We lose on everything. What I said, it's very possible that if they don't pay a fair share, because this is isn't 40 years ago where we could do what we're doing. We can't defend Japan, a behemoth selling us cars by the millions.

Trump: All I said is they may have to defend themselves or help us out. We're a country that owes $20 trillion. They have to help us out. Nuclear is concerned, I agree. It is the single greatest threat.

Trump: I have to say, what Secretary Clinton was saying about nuclear aggression. Russia has been expanding there, they have a much newer capability than we do. We have not been updating from the new standpoint. I looked the other night, I was seeing B-52s that your father, your grandfather could be flying them. We are not keeping up with other countries. I'd like everybody to end it, just get rid of it, but I would certainly not do first strike. I think once the nuclear alternative happens, it's over. At the same time, we have to be prepared. I can't take anything off the table. Because you look at some of these countries. You look at North Korea, we're doing nothing there. China should solve that problem for us. China should go into north Korea, China is totally powerful as it relates to North Korea.

Trump: One thing I'd like to say.

Trump: But I will tell you, Hillary tell you to go to her website and read all about how to defeat ISIS. Right now it's getting tougher and tougher to defeat them, because they're in more and more places and it's a big problem, and as far as Japan is concerned, I want to help all of our allies. But we are losing billions and billions of dollars. We cannot be the policeman of the world. We cannot protect countries all over the world.

Trump: Where they're not paying us what we need.

Trump: She didn't say that, because she has no business ability. We need heart, we need a lot of things, but you have to have some basic ability. And sadly, she doesn't have that. All of the things that she's talking about could have been taken care of during the last 10 years, let's say, while she has great power, but they weren't taken care. And if she ever wins this race, they won't be taken care of.

Trump: She doesn't have the look. She doesn't have the stamina. I said shy doesn't have the stamina, and I don't believe she does have the stamina. To be president of this country, you need tremendous stamina.

Trump: Did you ask me a question? You have to be able to negotiate our trade deals. You have to be able to negotiate. That's right. With Japan, with Saudi Arabia. I mean, can you imagine, we're defending Saudi Arabia and with all of the money they have, we're defending them, and they're not paying, all you have to do is speak to them. You have so many different things, you have to be able to do, and I don't believe that Hillary has the stamina.

Trump: The world. [Cheers and applause] Let me tell you. Let me tell you. Hillary has experience, but it's bad experience. We have made so many bad deals during the last — [cheers and applause] So she has experience I agree. But it's bad experience, whether it's the Iran deal you're so in love with where we gave them $150 billion back.You almost can't name a good deal. She's got experience, but it's bad experience. And this country can't afford to have another four years of that kind of bad experience. [Cheers and applause]

Trump: I never said that.

Trump: Where did you find this?

Trump: Let me just tell you.

Trump: Hillary is hitting me with tremendous commercials. Some of it's in entertainment. Somebody who's been very tough to me, Rosie O'Donnell. But you want to know the truth? I was going to say something --

Trump: Extremely rough to Hillary, to her family, and I said to myself, I can't do it. I just can't do it. It's inappropriate. It's not nice. But she's hundreds of millions of dollars on negative ads even me, many of which are untrue, and they're misrepresentations, and I will tell you this, Lester, it's not nice, and I don't deserve that, but it's certainly not a nice thing that she's done. Hundreds of millions of ads. The only gratifying thing is I, and with $200 million spent, and I'm either winning or tied.

Trump: I want to make America great again. The other day we were deporting 800 people. Perhaps they pressed the wrong button, or perhaps worse than that, it was corruption. These people we were going to deport ended up becoming citizens. End the up becoming citizens, and it's 800, and now it turns out, it might be 1,800, and they don't even know.

Trump: I'm going to make America great again. I will be able to do it. If she wins, I will absolutely support her.
